# Project-428
15 MW Karikayam Small Hydro Power Project at Ayyappa Hydro Power Limited by Energy Advisory Services Pvt Ltd

The proposed project titled under UCR is “15 MW Small Hydro Power Project at M/s Ayyappa Hydro
Power Limited by Energy Advisory Services”, which is a hydroelectric power project located in
Karikkayam, Chittar Taluk: Rani, District Pathanamthitta, state Kerala. The project is an operational
activity with continuous reduction of GHG, currently being applied under “Universal Carbon Registry”
(UCR).

Purpose of the project activity:
The project activity is a renewable power generation activity that incorporates the installation and
operation of Three hydro turbines, having aggregated installed capacity of 3Nos *5 MW = 15 MW in the
Taluk: Rani, District Pathanamthitta, state Kerala - India. This project is promoted by M/s Ayyappa Hydro
Power Limited. This project activity is also called as Karikayam Small Hydro Power Project.
The hydroelectric turbine No. 2 was Synchronization on 29/08/2013, hydroelectric turbine No. 3 was
Synchronization on 02/09/2013 and hydroelectric turbine No. 1 was Synchronization on 28/09/2013 and
declared the Commercial Operation Date by KSEB: Kerala State Electricity Board Limited on Company
Limited, with whom the Power Purchase Agreement was concluded.

The project activity aims to harness kinetic energy of water (renewable source) from Kakkad river to
generate electricity. As the nature of the hydro project, no fossil fuel is involved for power generation in
the project activity, the electricity produced by the project is directly contributing to climate change
mitigation by reducing the anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere by
displacing an equivalent amount of power at the grid, which would otherwise have been generated from
fossil fuel-based power plants which are connected to the Indian grid system.

The net generated electricity from the project activity is sold to state electricity board through the Power
Purchase Agreement (PPA) signed between the project developer and the KSEB: Kerala State Electricity
Board Limited.

In pre-project scenario, electricity delivered to the grid by the project activity would have otherwise been
generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based grid-connected power plants and by the addition of new
generation sources in the grid.

Hence, project activity is displacing the estimated annual net electricity generation i.e., 34,645 MWh/y
from the regional grid, which otherwise would have been generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based
grid-connected power plants.

Scale of the project activity Small Scale

Project participants NAME OF OWNER:
Ayyappa Hydro Power Limited,
EDCL House,1 A, Elgin Road,
Kolkata 700020

AGGREGATOR:
Energy Advisory Services Pvt. Ltd.
Bangalore, Karnataka.

Host Party INDIA
Applied methodologies and standardized baselines Applied Baseline Methodology:
AMS-I. D: “Grid connected renewable electricity
generation”, version 18
Standardized Methodology: Not Applicable.

Sectoral scopes 01 Energy industries
(Renewable/Non-Renewable Sources)

Estimated amount of total GHG emission
reductions 

2013: 11,509 CoUs (11,509 tCO2eq)

2014: 26,363 CoUs (26,363 tCO2eq)

2015: 23,661 CoUs (23,661 tCO2eq)

2016: 20,299 CoUs (20,299 tCO2eq)

2017: 31,027 CoUs (31,027 tCO2eq)

2018: 43,374 CoUs (43,374 tCO2eq)

2019: 26,529 CoUs (26,529 tCO2eq)

2020: 32,258 CoUs (32,258 tCO2eq)

2021: 47,960 CoUs (47,960 tCO2eq)

2022: 45,108 CoUs (45,108 tCO2eq)

2023: 34,894 CoUs (34,894 tCO2eq)

Total: 3,42,982 CoUs (3,42,982 tCO2eq)
